<center>
# The Tempest
*William Shakespeare*

---
</center>

## Act I, Scene 2

*1 - 2:* Miranda says that if her father, by his magic, has created this storm, then he must pacify it.  
*2 - 4:* The sky threatened to pour down hot pitch, but the waves rose to dash the fire out.  
*10 - 13:* Miranda says that had she been a god of power, she would have hurled the sea into the bottom of the earth before it could have swallowed the ship.  
*18 - 21:* Prospero tells his daughter that she doesn't know who she is and whether her father is anything else apart from the owner of a poor cave.  
*25 - 33:* Prospero took off his magic robe to lend credibility to his narration. He answers Miranda, saying that the shipwreck, suffering and drowning were an illusion, created by his magic art. The ship and its passengers are in fact all safe and sound.  
*44 - 47:* Miranda says that her memory is like a mist and there is no positive assurance behind it. She her father whether she had four or five maidservants to look after her.  
*48 - 52:* Prospero confirms this and says that once Miranda had more than four/five maidservants to look after her. Then he asks her whether she remembers how they had arrived on the island.  
*53 - 55:* Prospero declares that twelve years ago, he was the Duke of Milan and a very powerful prince.  
*56 - 59:* Prospero tells Miranda that since her mother was a virtuous woman, he can safely assume that Miranda is a true heir to the Dukedom of Milan.  
*66 - 77:* Prospero says that he had loved his brother Antonio and had entrusted upon him the governance of the Dukedom of Milan. At that time, Milan was a sovereign, independent Dukedom and Prospero was celebrated for his rare intellectual achievements. He handed over the reins of governance to his brother so that he could study more and intellectually empower himself.  
*79 - 87:* Antonio mastered the art of administration and learnt to grant appeals or reject them. He controlled and manipulated officers and offices. He was like an ivy plant that flourishes at the expense of the royal oak tree.  
*89 - 97:* Prospero was given to retirement and intellectual pursuits, which slowly proved detrimental to his interests. Greed was aroused in the mind of Antonio, and Prospero's trust in him bred a disloyalty and faithlessness as wicked as his great trust was.  
*97 - 105:* Antonio was so intoxicated by power that he kept on hammering to himself the lie that he was the real Duke of Milan, and not a substitute. He had become intoxicated with the powers, appearances and prerogatives of being the Duke of Milan.  
*121 - 128:* Antonio wanted to become the real Duke of Milan, and thought that Prospero had become incapable of administrative duties. He promised the King of Naples an annual tribute, allegiance and the subordination of Milan to Naples. They reached an understanding that in return for the tribute, allegiance and subordination, the King would help Antonio to get rid of Prospero and his entire family.  
*128 - 132:* One midnight, Antonio opened the gates of Milan and let in an army of traitors who had the design of finishing Prospero and his family.  
*140 - 142:* They dared not kill Prospero and Miranda, as the people of Milan held them in high esteem, and the shedding of Prospero's blood would have incited a rebellion.  
*143 - 151:* Prospero says that the army forced him and Miranda into a mere hulk of a boat without rigging or ship-gear. Even the rats had abandoned it. They were supposed to drown.  
*152 - 158:* Prospero says that it was Miranda and her smile that gave him the impetus to live. He wanted to live for his daughter and waited for his chance to seek retribution against this grave injustice.  
*159 - 168:* Prospero says the they had some provisions and fresh water that a native of Naples, Gonzalo, had supplied, in addition to rich garments and other necessary articles. Gonzalo, who was given the responsibility of getting rid of Prospero, also furnished him with all of the books of magic that Prospero prized.  
*171 - 174:* Prospero says that he has been the only schoolmaster of Miranda and has instructed her with greater wisdom, discipline and sense of responsibility than she would have otherwise experienced.  

*247 - 250:* Ariel tells Prospero that he has been of great service to him, has never told lies, made no mistakes, and has obeyed his commands without murmur or complaint. Prospero had promised to reduce his period or service by one full year.  
*257 - 259:* Prospero asked Ariel whether he has forgotten the wicked witch Sycorax, who was bent double with age and malice.  
*269 - 279:* Sycorax came to the island with a child. Ariel was her servant then. Because Ariel was too gentle to carry out her evil commands, she shut him up in an open pine tree with the help of other powerful spirits. Sycorax died and then there was no one to break the spell that she had cast on Ariel.  
*286 - 291:* Prospero says that Ariel's torture was so deep and unbearable that it made the wolves howl with sympathy and melted the hearts of the rugged bears.  
*294 - 296:* Prospero warns Ariel that if he complains any further, he will tear apart an oak, confine Ariel within its twisted trunk and leave him there to groan for twelve long years.  
*301 - 304:* Prospero instructs Ariel to take the form of a sea nymph and be visible to nobody except Ariel and Prospero.  

*311 - 314:* Prospero says that they cannot do without Caliban as he fetches wood and does all sorts of domestic duties for Prospero and Miranda.  
*331 - 344:* Caliban accuses Prospero of having usurped the island from him. He says that when Prospero came to the island, he was loving towards Caliban and took care of him. He would give him coffee/cocoa to drink and teach him the names of the Sun, Moon and Stars. Caliban further accuses Prospero of having taken away his sovereignty and reduced him to the position of a slave.  
*344 - 348:* Prospero says that he treated Caliban with kindness and lodged him in his own cell till Caliban wanted to violate the modesty of Miranda.  
*350 - 361:* Miranda was initially careful to be a tutor to Caliban and taught him how to speak. Even Miranda harps on the fact that Caliban in inherently evil and therefore cannot really imbibe all that is good.  



---

<center>
*(Modified from notes dictated by Mr. Anirban Roy)*
</center>